So in all these tools, I was using kind of
these weird phrases called TCP and UDP.
So what am I talking about exactly?
So TCP stands for
transmission control protocol.
Again, I nternet's built on rules and
cooperation, internet protocols, one,
transmission control protocol
is the other one, TCP/IP.
Most packets are going to be TCP packets.
The other type of packet we're
gonna run into is called a UDP,
the User Datagram Protocol.
And you're saying, Jim,
why do I care about any of this stuff?
I'm a front engineer.
Blah, blah, blah, you're handsome.
Well, TCP is always gonna be
the most reliable connection.
TCP, actually I have
this on the next slide.
TCP has what's called the handshake.
So I send a SYN, which is a the type
of the packet that I'm gonna send, and
said, I'm sending you something.
The server is gonna say SYN ACK,
I acknowledge your request and
I'm gonna send you back.
Then I acknowledge that
they acknowledged me.
And we do this millions and millions and
millions and millions of times.
TCP is extremely reliable.
It was invented because
the internet in the early days and
even now is really unreliable.
Remember how it takes 20
hops to get to Google?
How do we know?
Who's enforcing that these hops
are actually taking place?
What if something goes down and
we have to reroute?
How then does the server
know how to talk back to me?
Or what if one router is only
allowing inbound traffic, but
it's not allowing the outbound traffic?
How do those responses get back to me?
It's all done through the magic of TCP.
TCP is like, hey, bro,
I'm sending you a file.
I'm like, cool.
I'll receive the file in the service like,
cool.
I'm glad you're gonna receive that file.
And then it sends me the file and I can
say, hey, I got 90% of that file, but
these packets are missing,
this chunk of the file is missing.
And the server will say,
okay, let me resend those.
And I will keep resending and
retrying until everything is done and
the connection is complete.
TCP does that for us.
It's very reliable.
It has a lot of redundancies built
in to make sure that the data
is getting where it needs to go.
And we need to because
the Internet's complicated,
there's a lot of ways it can go sideways.
UDP on the other hand, does not care.
UDP is, hey, you need a file, catch.
If you catch it or not, who knows?
But it doesn't really care.
UDP is a one way.
It's just gonna spray data at you.
So why does that matter?
Why do we use TCP and versus UDP?
Why do we have these protocols?
Well, one, anyone wanna take a guess?
>> Depends on the what you're trying
to send and whether it needs to
respond one after another or it can
be kind of assembled after the fact?
>> Yeah, so the answer there was it
depends on what you're trying to send,
if it can be reassembled after the fact.
What else would we use?
Why would we care if
the connection actually made it?
>> I mean for something like streaming
video, if you receive a frame out of
order, you're not gonna go back and replay
that one frame when it's out of order.
So UDP is usually just good for
sending real-time type stuff
where it doesn't matter if it
gets a few drops here and there.
>> Yeah, that's exactly right.
UDP is useful for streaming video.
And where it doesn't matter if you
lose a couple packets along the way.
Yes, question mark.
>> UDP is faster, better for
real time data like wipe and video.
>> Yeah, exactly right.
Something streaming streaming music,
streaming video where if you do lose
a couple of frames in there,
it's not the end of the world.
It's totally fine.
You ever wonder why your video sometimes
gets blurry when you're real time
chatting?
That's because UDP.
UDP is just sending you data, sending
you data with the assumption that yeah,
you're probably getting it.
Dont really care if you're not,
we're just gonna keep sending it until
yours has stopped or connection is closed.
Whereas TCP is much slower,
it's much more reliable.
You can run video chat over TCP, but
because video chat is actually very or
video streaming or music streaming
is very bandwidth-intensive.
Running it over TCP is
gonna be very expensive and
it'll take up a lot more bandwidth
than is necessary, versus UDP.
But if I had, say,
I don't know, a webpage,
I'm not gonna send it over UDP because I
need every single one of those bytes to be
reassembled in the correct order to
make sure my webpage comes together.
So that's why these two
different protocols exist.
Different purposes,
different complexities.
It's a trade off between the two.
And there's something called
ICMP Internet Control Message Protocol
that's built over either TCP or UDP.
Generally we send over TCP but
it doesn't really matter.
It's just a protocol on
top of the other ones.
That's how pain works.
That's how traceroute works.
These are just The Internet Control
Message Protocol just saying like, hey,
what time is it?
Or hey, are you still there?
We're not sending data.
It's just checking into the server itself.
They don't actually provide any
useful information to us itself.
Just yeah, more in the network tool side.
And then all this happens
at a packet level.
A packet is the smallest unit of
unit of data that can be transmitted
over a network.
Everything whether it's UDP or
TCP operates running through a packet.
We won't go into packets,
that is a whole, that was,
I don't know, like a few weeks in
my computer science education.
But we won't go into packets, but
packets are really interesting
how they are composed.
How they say, hey, I'm gonna send you a 10
gigabyte file or something like that.
How are those broken down into packets
that are really, really tiny chunks
of information, sometimes kilobytes,
sometimes smaller, bigger.
There's a whole protocol and
standards for doing that.
The fun thing about ICMP in the early
days there's something called the ping
of death.
Which is, and I'll admit,
I was not a good person before.
Still not a good person today but I was
less a good person when I was younger and
into computers but
maybe is how I got good at them.
But I could spin on my computer, I could
ping somebody because every time I ping
someone they have to
respond back with a pong.
So ping pong, ping pong, ping pong.
I could fire off a thousand pings
in real life much more than that.
And they have to respond every time, but
every time they respond it's using
just a little bit of their CPU.
So it's possible in the old
days to just ping somebody and
get all of your buddies to ping a website
and just take it down very easily just
using ping, cuz you're forcing
the computer to respond every single time.
That's no longer a thing we
can deal with pings of death.
Another trick was with even with pings
was, I'm gonna ping you from my IP
address but I'm gonna spoof
that header in the packet and
say it's actually coming
from this address.
So I can say ping google.com or
something like that.
Google's gonna respond with a pong
to an entirely different IP address.
So I can flood a victim or someone I'm
trying to go after, trying to take down,
and I'm not even doing it.
I'm just telling another server to do it.
And we actually see a lot of,
we don't see this as much anymore,
cuz we have ways of mitigating that.
But we see that a lot with unpatched
routers, things like that used for
DDoS attacks were DDoS is
a Distributed Denial-of-Service attack or
just flooding computer.
These days it's most often
caused by hacked servers or
misconfigured routers
somewhere along the way.
Okay, we talked about TCP UDP,
the handshake and
all this is courtesy of Cloudflare.
Cloudflare has excellent breakdowns of
really complex networking diagrams,
things like that, and
they explain it in really plain terms so
check out that link if
you want have even more.
And the Internet is built
on the TCP/IP standard.
We all collectively agree every single
piece of hardware, every single piece of
networking equipment agrees on these
protocols and putting them all together.
And again, fascinating we've come to this
consensus without anybody making us do it.